docs(ae): AE 2.0 - 3rd party installation - API spec (#934)
gravitee-io/gravitee-docs: pages/ae/3rdparties/3rdparties-installation.adoc

    // ws.send(JSON.stringify([...trigger]));
}

----

Same goes with Events

[source,javascript]
----
const WebSocket = require('ws');

const wsEvent = new WebSocket("ws://localhost:8072/ws/events", {
    headers : {
        "Authorization": "Basic base64(username:password)"
    }
});

wsEvent.onopen = () => {
  console.log("Trigger connection opened");
};

wsEvent.onerror = (error) => {
  console.log("An error has occurred:", error);
};

wsEvent.onclose = (event) => {
  console.log("Trigger websocket connection closed:", event.code, event.reason);
};

// Later in code

const event = {
  "id": "event-id",
  "timestamp": Date.now(),
  "type": "my-source", // Same value as the Trigger `source` property
  "context": { // context of your event, can be re-used in the notifier
      "node.host": "my-host",
      "node.environment": "my-env"
  },
  "properties": { // What will be evaluated by the condition in the trigger
      "response.response_time" : 500
  }
}

if (wsEvent.readyState === WebSocket.OPEN) {
    // You can send a single trigger
    wsEvent.send(JSON.stringify(event));

    // Or an array of events
    // ws.send(JSON.stringify([...event]));
}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

On AE logs you should see like before some line to say that a new websocket is open.

And on the `trigger.js` run you should see something like:

----
Received message: {"action":"CHANGE","member":"428998e2-fe84-4dfd-82a6-7966d6883073","endpoint":"http://172.20.0.2:8072","id":"8a4a158c-4f31-4a59-8a15-8c4f31aa5902","type":"NODE_DISCOVERY"}
----

```

:page-folder: ae/3rdparties
:page-description: Gravitee Alert Engine - Third Parties - Installation
:page-toc: true
:page-keywords: Gravitee, API Platform, Alert, Alert Engine, documentation, manual, guide, reference, api, third-party, 3rd-party
:page-layout: ae

AE works both within and outside the Gravitee.io ecosystem.
You can plug in your own backends and benefit from all the same features.

== Requirements

You must have an Alert Engine available:

> * already deployed on your infrastructure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Either already deployed on your infrastructure, or
```

Reviewer 2: @passionne is this accurate?

* by running it with docker:
** `docker run -t -v "${PWD}/licence.key:/opt/graviteeio-alert-engine/license/license.key:ro" -p 8072:8072 graviteeio/ae-engine:latest`

> ** note that we use a licence.key file that you must have in the current directory (update the cli as you need)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Note that we use a `licence.key` file that you must have in the current directory (update the CLI as you need).
```

> For running the javascript scripts below, we use `node version v18.7.0`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For running the Javascript scripts below, we use `node version v18.7.0`.
```

> == Websocket connection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== WebSocket connection
```

> You can send triggers through websocket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can send triggers through WebSocket.
```

Reviewer 2: How do you do that?

Reviewer: Interesting question, when we are focus it's look like an evidence 😅. I will add sentences : `You can find bellow a Javascript implementation.` to clarify it.

WDYT ?

Reviewer 2: Yeah that works - my question was more about how we should guide readers e.g. what to expect and this was not immediately obvious in this case (that the guidance would follow below:)).

Reviewer: Oh ! got  it. I added this in intro:

```
It means that you can create triggers and afterward sending events, both via WebSocket or HTTP endpoint, as your convenience.
```

Hope it makes the goal clearer.

> You can send a triggers through websocket

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can send a trigger through websocket.
```

Reviewer: As we can send multiple triggers, I kept the `s` and removed the `a`. 😊

> You can send triggers through WebSocket. You can find bellow a Javascript implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can send triggers through WebSocket, as shown in the Javascript implementation example below.
```

Reviewer 2: @passionne does this sound better?

To test this script:

> * boostrap a javascript project with `npm init`

Reviewer 2: this should be a numbered list as it is a step-by-step procedure?

    // ws.send(JSON.stringify([...trigger]));
}

----

Same goes with events:

[source,javascript]
----
const WebSocket = require('ws');

const wsEvent = new WebSocket("ws://localhost:8072/ws/events", {
    headers : {
        "Authorization": "Basic base64(username:password)"
    }
});

wsEvent.onopen = () => {
  console.log("Trigger connection opened");
};

wsEvent.onerror = (error) => {
  console.log("An error has occurred:", error);
};

wsEvent.onclose = (event) => {
  console.log("Trigger websocket connection closed:", event.code, event.reason);
};

// Later in code

const event = {
  "id": "event-id",
  "timestamp": Date.now(),
  "type": "my-source", // Same value as the Trigger `source` property
  "context": { // context of your event, can be re-used in the notifier
      "node.host": "my-host",
      "node.environment": "my-env"
  },
  "properties": { // What will be evaluated by the condition in the trigger
      "response.response_time" : 500
  }
}

if (wsEvent.readyState === WebSocket.OPEN) {
    // You can send a single trigger
    wsEvent.send(JSON.stringify(event));

    // Or an array of events
    // ws.send(JSON.stringify([...event]));
}
----

> A new Alert Engine log line should appear to confirm a new websocket is opened.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A new Alert Engine log line should appear to confirm a new WebSocket is opened.
```

And on the `trigger.js` run you should see something like:

----
Received message: {"action":"CHANGE","member":"428998e2-fe84-4dfd-82a6-7966d6883073","endpoint":"http://172.20.0.2:8072","id":"8a4a158c-4f31-4a59-8a15-8c4f31aa5902","type":"NODE_DISCOVERY"}
----

> == Http Endpoint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== HTTP Endpoint
```

> You can also submit triggers via HTTP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also submit triggers via HTTP:
```

:page-folder: ae/3rdparties
:page-description: Gravitee Alert Engine - Third Parties - Installation
:page-toc: true
:page-keywords: Gravitee, API Platform, Alert, Alert Engine, documentation, manual, guide, reference, api, third-party
:page-layout: ae

AE works both within and outside the Gravitee.io ecosystem.
You can plug in your own backends and benefit from all the same features.

== Requirements

You must have an Alert Engine available:

* already deployed on you infrastructure
* from our SaaS platform (comming soon)
* by running it with docker:
** `docker run -t -v "${PWD}/licence.key:/opt/graviteeio-alert-engine/license/license.key:ro" -p 8072:8072 graviteeio/ae-engine:latest`
** note that we use a licence.key file that you must have in the current directory (update the cli as you need)

For running javascript script bellow, we used `node version v18.7.0`.

> == Websocket connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion

== Websocket connection
```
